---
source_url: https://www.hdfcfund.com/explore/mutual-funds/hdfc-flexi-cap-fund/direct
scrape_date: 20260429
tier: tier_2_hdfc_amc
scheme_name: hdfc-flexi-cap-fund_direct
domain: hdfcfund.com
content_hash: sha256:941eb679b5cf723334c30d5064ac009e45ae9f61b45ec366639e0735a42acb81
word_count: 1196
---

HDFC Flexi Cap Fund to Invest - Direct Plan

HDFC 
Flexi Cap Fund
Equity
DIRECT
REGULAR
An open ended dynamic equity scheme investing across large cap, mid cap & small cap stocks
30+ Years of Growth & Trust
Since inception, HDFC Flexi Cap Fund has navigated multiple market cycle over more than 3 decades
Flexi Cap Funds offer fund managers complete flexibility to allocate assets across large, mid, and small-cap stocks, based on market conditions. This adaptability makes HDFC Flexi Cap Fund attractive to investors seeking diversified exposure to the equity market.
What is HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
Fund Description: HDFC Flexi Cap Fund is an open-ended equity mutual fund scheme that invests across large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap companies.
This allows the fund to combine:
Stability from established market leaders
Growth potential from mid-sized companies
Emerging opportunities from smaller businesses
helping create a balanced approach to long-term wealth creation.
Who can consider HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
This fund may suit investors who:
Have a long-term investment horizon (5+ years)
Want diversified equity exposure across market caps
Are comfortable with short-term market volatility for long-term growth
How to start investing 
Investors can start investing in HDFC Flexi Cap Fund through the following steps:
Complete your KYC
Keep PAN, Aadhaar and bank details ready.
Visit HDFC Mutual Fund Website / App
Go to the fund page and click Invest Now.
Choose Investment Mode
SIP – invest a fixed amount monthly
Lump Sum – invest one time
Select Plan & Option
Direct or Regular Plan
Growth or IDCW option
Enter Amount & Payment Details
Set SIP date or make payment online.
Confirm & Start Investing
Your investment will be processed and units will be allotted.
Returns
since inception
15.47%
Inception Date
01/01/2013
Riskometer
Very High
Min SIP
₹ 100
Ideal for
Wealth Creation
3 Years and above
Entry Load
An entry load is a fee charged to investors when they purchase units of a Mutual Fund scheme. This fee was used to cover distribution and marketing expenses incurred by the Asset Management Company (AMC). Currently, Mutual Funds in India do not levy entry loads.

NA
TER
TER
The Total Expense Ration (TER) represents the costs for running and managing a Mutual Fund scheme. It is calculated as a percentage of the scheme’s average Net Asset Value (NAV). The daily NAV of a Mutual Fund is disclosed after deducting these expenses.
Disclaimer
Including Additional Expenses and Goods and Service Tax on Management Fees, if any. 
Click here
 to view the Total Expense Ratio
0.97
Lock in
A lock-in period is the fixed duration during which investors cannot sell or redeem their investments/Mutual Fund units. For example, Equity Linked Savings Schemes (ELSS) Funds have a 3-year lock-in.

NA
NAV
 
NA
Net Asset Value (NAV) per unit is the total market value of securities of a scheme minus liabilities divided by the total number of outstanding units on a given date.

NA
AUM
 
(31/03/2026)
Assets Under Management (AUM) is the total market value of all assets that a Mutual Fund manages on behalf of its investors.

₹91,334.91 Cr.
Benchmark
A benchmark is a standard market index used to compare a Fund’s performance. It helps investors know whether the Fund is performing better, worse, or similar to the market.

NIFTY 500 Total Retu...
NIFTY 500 Total Returns Index
INVEST NOW
Nav Performance
No data available
Scheme Returns (%)
Benchmark Returns (%)#
Additional Benchmark Returns (%)##
Value of Investment of Rs 10,000
Scheme Returns (Rs.)
Benchmark (Rs.)#
Additional Benchmark (Rs.)##
^Past performance may or may not be sustained in future and is not a guarantee of any future returns. # Nifty 500 TRI ## Nifty 50 ...
Read More
Fund Managers
Mr. Amit B Ganatra
Senior Fund Manager - Equities
OVERSEAS
Mr. Dhruv Muchhal
Equity Analyst and Fund Manager for Overseas Investments
Top
 10 
Holdings
As on 31 Mar 2026
Graph
Table
Downloads
HDFC Flexi Cap Fund
SID - HDFC Flexi Cap Fund dated November 21, 2025
KIM - HDFC Flexi Cap Fund dated November 21, 2025
Fund Facts - HDFC Flexi Cap Fund_March 26.pdf
HDFC Flexi Cap Fund-Presentation (April 2026).pdf
HDFC Flexi Cap Fund Leaflet (as of March 2026).pdf
Exit Load
In respect of each purchase / switch-in of Units, an Exit Load of 1.00% is payable if Units are redeemed / switched-out within 1 year from the date of allotment.
No Exit Load is payable if Units are redeemed / switched-out after 1 year from the date of allotment.
Product Labelling
Benchmark Riskometer
This product is suitable for investors who are seeking~
• To generate long-term capital appreciation / income
• Investment predominantly in equity & equity related instruments
~Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the product is suitable for them.
FAQs
What is HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
HDFC Flexi Cap Fund is an open-ended equity mutual fund that invests across large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap stocks, giving the fund manager flexibility to capture opportunities across market segments.
How does a Flexi Cap Fund work?
A flexi cap fund dynamically allocates investments across different market capitalizations based on market conditions, valuations, and growth opportunities.
What is the key advantage of a Flexi Cap Fund?
The main advantage is flexibility — the fund manager can shift allocation between large, mid, and small caps to optimize risk-reward potential. Please refer Scheme Documents above for more details
 
 
Is HDFC Flexi Cap Fund suitable for long-term investment?
Yes, it is generally suited for investors with a long-term horizon (5+ years) who want diversified equity exposure.
Who should invest in HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
Investors seeking long-term capital appreciation, diversification across market caps, and professional portfolio management may consider this fund.
Is this fund risky?
Since it invests in equities across market caps, the fund carries market risk. However, diversification across large, mid, and small caps aims to manage volatility.
How is Flexi Cap different from Multi Cap funds?
Flexi Cap funds have complete flexibility in allocation across market caps, whereas Multi Cap funds follow SEBI-defined minimum allocation rules for each market segment.
Can I invest through SIP in HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
Yes, investors can start a SIP to invest regularly and benefit from rupee cost averaging over time.
What is the investment strategy of HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
The fund follows a diversified approach focusing on quality businesses, valuation discipline, and long-term growth opportunities across sectors and market caps.
What makes HDFC Flexi Cap Fund different from large-cap funds?
Unlike large-cap funds that mainly invest in large cap companies, this fund can invest across the entire market spectrum, providing wider growth opportunities.
What is the minimum SIP amount in HDFC Flexi Cap Fund?
The minimum SIP amount for HDFC Flexi Cap Fund is ₹100 (or as specified by the scheme). Investors can start a Systematic Investment Plan with small periodic investments and increase the amount over time based on their financial goals.
You can refer website or the scheme information document for the latest investment requirements.
What benchmark does HDFC Flexi Cap Fund use?
HDFC Flexi Cap Fund is benchmarked against NIFTY 500 Total Returns Index (TRI), which represents the performance of a broad range of companies across different market capitalisations.