---
source_url: https://www.hdfcfund.com/explore/mutual-funds/hdfc-elss-tax-saver/direct
scrape_date: 20260416
tier: tier_2_hdfc_amc
scheme_name: hdfc-elss-tax-saver_direct
domain: hdfcfund.com
content_hash: sha256:97a68e264d350252961c41172a9338f4c2c13fdfd5ce302b6f0ad974b5b4d9f2
word_count: 984
---

HDFC ELSS Tax Saver Fund Direct Growth - NAV, Portfolio and Performance | HDFC Mutual Funds
HDFC 
ELSS Tax Saver
Tax Saver
DIRECT
REGULAR
An Open-ended Equity Linked Savings Scheme with a statutory lock in of 3 years and tax benefit.

This is a simple and performing scheme which is eligible for distribution by new cadre of distributors.

The scheme offers the dual benefit of tax saving and wealth creation. It comes with a lock-in period of three years and provides individuals/HUFs a deduction from gross total income for investments in Equity-Linked Savings Scheme upto ₹1.5 lakh under section 80C of the Income Tax Act 1961.

The fund invests 80-100% of its portfolio in equity or equity related instruments.The equity strategy aims to provide long term capital appreciation from a reasonably diversified portfolio consisting of mid cap and large cap companies which:

are likely to achive above average growth than the industry,

enjoy distinct competetive advantages,

have superior financial strenghts.

 

Returns
since inception
13.75%
Inception Date
01/01/2013
Riskometer
Very High
Min SIP
₹ 500
Ideal for
Wealth Creation
3 Years and above
Entry Load
An entry load is a fee charged to investors when they purchase units of a Mutual Fund scheme. This fee was used to cover distribution and marketing expenses incurred by the Asset Management Company (AMC). Currently, Mutual Funds in India do not levy entry loads.

NA
TER
TER
The Total Expense Ration (TER) represents the costs for running and managing a Mutual Fund scheme. It is calculated as a percentage of the scheme’s average Net Asset Value (NAV). The daily NAV of a Mutual Fund is disclosed after deducting these expenses.
Disclaimer
Including Additional Expenses and Goods and Service Tax on Management Fees, if any. 
Click here
 to view the Total Expense Ratio
1.17
Lock in
A lock-in period is the fixed duration during which investors cannot sell or redeem their investments/Mutual Fund units. For example, Equity Linked Savings Schemes (ELSS) Funds have a 3-year lock-in.

3 years
NAV
 
NA
Net Asset Value (NAV) per unit is the total market value of securities of a scheme minus liabilities divided by the total number of outstanding units on a given date.

NA
AUM
 
(31/03/2026)
Assets Under Management (AUM) is the total market value of all assets that a Mutual Fund manages on behalf of its investors.

₹14,615.19 Cr.
Benchmark
A benchmark is a standard market index used to compare a Fund’s performance. It helps investors know whether the Fund is performing better, worse, or similar to the market.

NIFTY 500 Total Retu...
NIFTY 500 Total Returns Index
INVEST NOW
Nav Performance
No data available
Scheme Returns (%)
Benchmark Returns (%)#
Additional Benchmark Returns (%)##
Value of Investment of Rs 10,000
Scheme Returns (Rs.)
Benchmark (Rs.)#
Additional Benchmark (Rs.)##
^Past performance may or may not be sustained in future and is not a guarantee of any future returns. # Nifty 500 TRI ## Nifty 50 ...
Read More
Fund Managers
Amar Kalkundrikar
Fund Manager - Equities (Investments)
OVERSEAS
Mr. Dhruv Muchhal
Equity Analyst and Fund Manager for Overseas Investments
Top
 10 
Holdings
As on 31 Mar 2026
Graph
Table
Downloads
HDFC ELSS Tax Saver
SID - HDFC ELSS Tax Saver dated November 21, 2025
KIM - HDFC ELSS Tax Saver dated November 21, 2025
HDFC ELSS Tax saver Presentation (October 2025)
Leaflet 
Fund Facts - HDFC TaxSaver Fund_March 26.pdf
Exit Load
NIL

Product Labelling
Benchmark Riskometer

This product is suitable for investors who are seeking~

to generate long-term capital appreciation/income

 investment predominantly of equity and equity related instruments
 
 

~Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the product is suitable for them.

FAQs
1. How to Invest in HDFC ELSS Tax Saver?
Investors can apply for their transactions requests either offline or electronically using the relevant application / transaction request forms available on our website or at any of our Officials Points of Acceptance.
The application form/transaction slip for subscription/ redemption/ switches can be submitted at our Official Points of Acceptances whose addresses are available on the website of the AMC. These include:
1. AMC / RTA’s branches i.e. Investor Services Centres*
2. HDFC MF website and App/ RTA website for Investors to transact
3. MFSS/BSE StAR MF/NMF II platforms of the Stock Exchanges(s)
4. Authorized Points of Service of MF Utilities India Private Limited (MFUI)
5. Channel partners/ Distributors/ RIAs/ Portfolio Managers/Execution Only Platforms (EOPs) who have tied up with the AMC
6. MF Central 
* Note: Business Centres i.e. Sales offices of HDFC AMC are not Official Points of Acceptance of transactions.
Please refer offer documents for more details.
 
2. Can I invest in SIP and Lump Sum of the HDFC ELSS Tax Saver?
Yes, SIP as well as Lump Sum investments are permitted with the minimum application amount being ₹500. Any additional purchase must have a minimum amount of ₹500. The SIP and Lumpsum are available in direct and regular plan with both Growth and IDCW option.
3. How to Redeem HDFC ELSS Tax Saver?
Units of the scheme can be redeemed/switched out on any Business day at NAV based prices.
For Redemption (including switch-out) applications
• In respect of valid applications received upto 3 p.m. on a Business Day by the Fund, same day's closing NAV shall be applicable.
• In respect of valid applications received after 3 p.m. on a Business Day by the Fund, the closing NAV of the next Business Day shall be applicable.
Transactions through online facilities / electronic modes:
The time of transaction done through various online facilities / electronic modes offered by the AMC, for the purpose of determining the applicability of NAV, would be the time when the request for purchase / sale / switch of units is received in the servers of AMC/RTA.
The AMC has the right to amend cut off timings subject to SEBI (MF) Regulations for the smooth and efficient functioning of the Scheme.