---
source_url: https://www.hdfcfund.com/explore/mutual-funds/hdfc-small-cap-fund/direct
scrape_date: 20260416
tier: tier_2_hdfc_amc
scheme_name: hdfc-small-cap-fund_direct
domain: hdfcfund.com
content_hash: sha256:9e3e3c773a2e420a20dbe3f5df7405a4f4b773e3062bf83e11fc1e42ead5b0f3
word_count: 667
---

HDFC Small Cap Fund Direct Growth - NAV | HDFC Mutual Fund
HDFC 
Small Cap Fund
Equity
DIRECT
REGULAR
An open ended equity scheme predominantly investing in small cap stocks.

The Scheme shall follow a predominantly small cap strategy with a minimum exposure of 65% to small cap stocks. The Scheme may also seek participation in other equity and equity related securities to achieve optimal portfolio construction.

The aim of equity strategy will be to predominantly build a portfolio of small-cap companies which have:

reasonable growth prospects

sound financial strength

sustainable business models

acceptable valuation that offers potential for capital appreciation.

Returns
since inception
17.54%
Inception Date
01/01/2013
Riskometer
Very High
Min SIP
₹ 100
Ideal for
Wealth Creation
3 Years and above
Entry Load
An entry load is a fee charged to investors when they purchase units of a Mutual Fund scheme. This fee was used to cover distribution and marketing expenses incurred by the Asset Management Company (AMC). Currently, Mutual Funds in India do not levy entry loads.

NA
TER
TER
The Total Expense Ration (TER) represents the costs for running and managing a Mutual Fund scheme. It is calculated as a percentage of the scheme’s average Net Asset Value (NAV). The daily NAV of a Mutual Fund is disclosed after deducting these expenses.
Disclaimer
Including Additional Expenses and Goods and Service Tax on Management Fees, if any. 
Click here
 to view the Total Expense Ratio
0.74
Lock in
A lock-in period is the fixed duration during which investors cannot sell or redeem their investments/Mutual Fund units. For example, Equity Linked Savings Schemes (ELSS) Funds have a 3-year lock-in.

NA
NAV
 
NA
Net Asset Value (NAV) per unit is the total market value of securities of a scheme minus liabilities divided by the total number of outstanding units on a given date.

NA
AUM
 
(31/03/2026)
Assets Under Management (AUM) is the total market value of all assets that a Mutual Fund manages on behalf of its investors.

₹33,724.28 Cr.
Benchmark
A benchmark is a standard market index used to compare a Fund’s performance. It helps investors know whether the Fund is performing better, worse, or similar to the market.

BSE 250 SmallCap Ind...
BSE 250 SmallCap Index (Total Returns Index)
INVEST NOW
Nav Performance
No data available
Scheme Returns (%)
Benchmark Returns (%)#
Additional Benchmark Returns (%)##
Value of Investment of Rs 10,000
Scheme Returns (Rs.)
Benchmark (Rs.)#
Additional Benchmark (Rs.)##
^Past performance may or may not be sustained in future and is not a guarantee of any future returns. # BSE 250 SmallCap Index TRI...
Read More
Fund Managers
Mr. Chirag Setalvad
Fund Manger- Head of Equities 
OVERSEAS
Mr. Dhruv Muchhal
Equity Analyst and Fund Manager for Overseas Investments
Top
 10 
Holdings
As on 31 Mar 2026
Graph
Table
Downloads
HDFC Small Cap Fund
SID - HDFC Small Cap Fund dated November 21, 2025
KIM - HDFC Small Cap Fund dated November 21, 2025
Note - Why Invest in HDFC Small Cap Fund - Nov 2025 
HDFC Small Cap Fund - Presentation (October 2025)
Fund Facts - HDFC Small Cap Fund_March 26.pdf
Exit Load
In respect of each purchase / switch-in of Units, an Exit Load of 1.00% is payable if Units are redeemed / switched out within 1 year from the date of allotment.
No Exit Load is payable if Units are redeemed / switched out after 1 year from the date of allotment.
Product Labelling
Benchmark Riskometer
This product is suitable for investors who are seeking~
to generate long-term capital appreciation/income
investments predominantly in Small-Cap companies
 
~Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the product is suitable for them.
 
FAQs
Can I invest in SIP and Lump Sum of HDFC Small Cap Fund ?
Yes, SIP as well as Lump Sum investments are permitted with the minimum application amount being ₹100. Any additional purchase must have a minimum amount of ₹100 The SIP and Lumpsum are available in direct and regular plan with both Growth and IDCW option.