---
source_url: https://www.amfiindia.com/investor
scrape_date: 20260429
tier: tier_3_amfi
scheme_name: investor
domain: amfiindia.com
content_hash: sha256:90c2e8f558cba09132217d12175172128674dd74fe61c847177e2e05a17c4066
word_count: 643
---

AMFI
MF
SIF
A-
A
A+
Light
Dark
Investor
Distributor
Research & Information
About AMFI
Contact Us
Search
If you have any dispute against a listed company and or its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) on delay or default in processing your request, as per SEBI circular dated 30.05.2022, you can file for arbitration with Stock Exchange.
If you have any dispute against a listed company and or its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) on delay or default in processing your request, as per SEBI circular dated 30.05.2022, you can file for arbitration with Stock Exchange.
Home
/
Investor Corner
Investor Corner
One-stop hub for mutual fund knowledge, tools, and the latest data to guide your investments.
Investor Awareness Program
How are Investor Awareness Programmes conducted?
Schedule of Investor Awareness Program
Knowledge Centre
Online Centre
Investor Centre
Knowledge Centre
Start with the fundamentals, understand mutual fund types, benefits, and how they work.
Introduction to Mutual Funds
Types of Mutual Fund Schemes
Expense Ratio
Risks in Mutual Funds
Advantages of Investing in Mutual Funds
Categorisation of Mutual Fund Schemes 
View All
Online Centre
Access mutual fund info and services easily, whenever you need.
Scheme-Wise Annual Reports
Download detailed annual reports for any mutual fund scheme with complete financials and performance data.
Portfolio Disclosure
Get transparent data on portfolio holdings for all mutual fund schemes.
Locate an AMC Branch
Find the nearest AMC branch for in-person support and services.
Invest Online in Mutual Funds + MFU + MF Central
Start investing today through multiple secure platforms - MFU, MF Central, and direct AMC portals.
Locate a Mutual Fund Distributor
Find a mutual fund distributor close to you.
Checkout Unclaimed Dividend Amount
Check and claim any unclaimed dividends from mutual fund investments.
View All
Investor Centre
Comprehensive resources for investors: funds, tools, insights, and updates.
How to Invest in Mutual Funds
Know Your Customer (KYC)
How to withdraw your money in a Mutual Fund
Systematic Investment Plan (SIP)
Investment on behalf of Minors & Change in Status on Minor attaining Majority
Procedure to Claim Units / Proceeds upon death of a Unitholder
View All
 
Disclaimer : The information disseminated on AMFI website about various categories of mutual fund schemes is for informational purposes for creating awareness about mutual funds as a financial product category and not for sales promotion nor solicitation of business. The content herein has been prepared by AMFI on the basis of publicly available information, internal sources and other third-party sources believed to be reliable. However, AMFI cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information, assure its completeness, or warrant such information will not be changed. The content herein does not take into account individual investor’s objectives, risk appetite or financial needs or circumstances or the suitability of the mutual fund products described herein. Hence, investors are advised to consult their professional investment adviser/ consultant/ tax advisor for investment advice in this regard. A mutual fund scheme is NOT a DEPOSIT product and is not an obligation of, or guaranteed, or insured by the mutual fund or its AMC. Due to the nature of the underlying investments, the returns or the potential returns of a mutual fund product cannot be guaranteed. Historical performance, when presented, is purely for reference purposes and is not a guarantee of future results. Mutual Funds are subject to market risk. Please read all Scheme related documents carefully before investing.
Association of Mutual Funds in India
CIN- U65991MH1995NPL092062
Know About AMFI
About AMFI
Objectives
Board of Directors
AMFI Executives
Committees
View More
Media
Press Release
AMFI Publications
AMFI Mutual Fund Summit
Gallery
Videos
Other Links
Schedule of Investor Awareness Program
AMC Branches
Locate a MF Distributor
SEBI
Useful Links
View More
TERMS OF USE
|
PRIVACY NOTICE
© 2025 AMFI. All Rights Reserved
Quick Access
Latest NAV
Download NAV
Disclosure of Risk Parameters
New Fund Offer
View All